---
title: "Project Portfolio: Okane"
description: "How I built Okane - a privacy first finance tracker"
summary: "How I built Okane - a privacy first finance tracker"
date: 2021-06-01
aliases: []
categories: ["tech"]
tags: ["portfolio", "php", "vue"]
draft: false
editPost:
    URL: "https://github.com/meacu1pa/meaculpa.dev/tree/main/content"
    Text: "Suggest Changes"
    appendFilePath: true
---

## About

> Info: This article is still WIP.

Okane is a simple expense tracker, built with privacy in mind. I was curious to try out some technologies I haven't used before. Namely Linear, [API-Platform](https://api-platform.com/), Vue and Heroku (more on this later). The app itself is based on a PHP REST-API backend, with a decoupled [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) frontend. As a hosting solution I went with the free tier of Heroku, which includes a tiny web server and a managed Postgres database. Beside this, I also built my own Hugo theme, for the landing page and static SEO optimized content. Hugo is a Static Site Generator (SSG), written in Go. Right now, the static part is served by a tiny Typescript server on edge functions via Deno Deploy. All my deployment steps are fully automated and only need a merge or push on the `main` branch.

## Linear

For my first product built from scratch, I wanted to try out a new tool for project management. You can think of Linear as a opinionated version of Jira, but *way* better. It let's you plan tickets in the form of customizable sprints, the so called "cycles". Linear comes with integrations for Gitlab and GitHub, which made the ticket flow a breeze. I worked with milestones for the initial release and different epics for the many parts of Okane. A few weeks in I learned, what my velocity is developing Okane besides my day job, and it was quite easy to plan the initial release of the MVP.

## Heroku

Heroku is a simple to use platform service. It let's you spin up managed Postgres databases and servers in a few clicks or via a CLI. It integrates seamlessly with GitHub and enables simple continuous deployments. It has a generous free tier, which I'm using for this project.

## API-Platform

[API-Platform](https://api-platform.com/) is a PHP framework to create API driven services. Since it was created in the wider Symfony ecosystem, I felt immediately at home. For example - API-Platform provides out-of-the-box REST-APIs around Doctrine entities. You can also make use of different built-in patterns like persisters, to hook into this automatically generated API endpoints. It was really refreshing to build with this framework.

## Vue

[Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) is a JavaScript framework to create single page applications (SPA's). During development I made use of the [Vuetify](https://vuetifyjs.com/) component library, to easily scaffold different parts of my app's UI.

## Hugo

For the static parts, like the landing page or SEO optimized content pages like blog posts, FAQs and more, I decided to build my own Hugo theme. Hugo is a static site generator (SSG) that renders Markdown files into static HTML. I also use Hugo for this blog you're reading.
